# Contents and Structure of this Package

## Contents of This Package

This package containing preserved digital resources has been created for you for restoration and distribution purposes.  In preservation terms, this package is a **Dissemination Information Package** (DIP).

The contents of this package do not contain all the preservation metadata associated with the resources, nor will it necessarily correspond to the contents of any packages submitted earlier for ingest into the preservation system.  This DIP may be one of many that contain the preserved resources you have requested, all the metadata you have supplied about those resources, and generated non-system-specific preservation metadata about the resources.

Depending on the kind of DIP you have requested, this package may contain all versions of a preserved resource, or just the most recent version.

## Structure of This Package

This DIP conforms to the [BagIT 1.0 specification](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8493). It has the structure of a valid BagIT 1.0 bag.

The top-level folder is simply a folder with the name of this DIP.  It contains two kinds of information:

* BagIt metadata files
* The `data/` folder, containing your objects (the _payload_)

### BagIt metadata files

* bag-info.txt: a plain text file with metadata about this bag, in the form of _key_:_value_.  The vault these resources were retrieved from is recorded here.
* bagit.txt: a plain text file with the BagIt specification version this bag conforms to, and the character encoding of all the BagIt metadata files.
* manifest-sha256.txt: a plain text file containing all the folders and files in the payload, along with their SHA256 checksums.  This file can be used to verify the integrity and completeness of this bag.
* tagmanifest-sha256.txt: a plain text file containing a list of the BagIt metadata files contained in this bag, along with their SHA256 checksums.  This is also used for verifying the integrity and completeness of the bag.

### The payload:  `/data`

Under the `data/` directory are your preserved resources, organized as object folders.  Each folder contains all the files that pertain to a single object.  The folder is named with the object identifier, provided when you first sent the resources to the preservation system.

Under the object folder are two items:

* premis.xml:  a text XML document containing preservation metadata about the object.  This file conforms to the PREMIS XML format, and embodies the information defined by the [PREMIS](https://www.loc.gov/standards/premis/) data dictionary.
* version folders:  one or more folders labeled with each version of the object.  If you requested only the most recent version of objects, there will only be one folder, labeled with the number of the latest version.

Under a version folder you will find the files you submitted that constitute the object at that particular version, organized in the folder structure that you supplied when submitting the resources for preservation.

## Example DIP

```
dip-91
├── bag-info.txt
├── bagit.txt
├── manifest-sha256.txt
└── tagmanifest-sha256.txt
├── data
│   ├── lib-58551
│   │   ├── 1
│   │   │   ├── DESC.txt
│   │   │   ├── MASTER.tif
│   │   │   └── TEXT.txt
│   │   └── premis.xml
│   └── lib-58552
│   	├── 1
│   	│   ├── DESC.txt
│   	│   └── MASTER.tif
│   	├── 2
│   	│   ├── DESC.txt
│   	│   ├── MASTER.tif
│   	│   └── TEXT.txt
│   	└── premis.xml
```

This sample bag contains two objects:  `lib-58551` and `lib-58552`.

Each object has a `premis.xml` file, recording preservation metadata about the files in the object:  when each version was created, the formats of the files, etc.

There is only one version of `lib-58551`, but two versions of `lib-58552`.  Version 2 is the latest version.

Each object contains three files:  a text file, a TIFF image file, and a text description file.

## Important Note about the Payload

The preservation system preserves the objects you supply to it, in exactly the format* and organization you give them.  It does not, and cannot, infer links between files or objects, rights or licenses, access policies, or any other critical information about the resources that is not explicitly supplied at the time of ingest.  This DIP contains resources you submitted in the form and structure that you submitted them, along with additional formats and data that may have been generated by the preservation system.

* The preservation system may at times identify formats that are at risk, and possibly generate derivatives of the files in those formats in a more stable preservation format (example:  convert a Word 6.0 document into PDF/A format).  These new derived files will be stored along with the files originally supplied, in a new version of the object.
